# Challenge Problems

&#x2637; [Table of Contents](./../toc.md)

Use what you have learned in this chapter, see if you can complete the following challenges.

## Problem 1

Create a project folder in VS Code and make it your root folder. It should have the following tree.

```console
chapter_1/
├── lesson1.py
├── lesson2.py
├── lesson3.py
├── lesson4.py
├── lesson5.py
├── lesson6.py
├── lesson7.py
├── lesson8.py
├── review.py
└── challenge_problems.py
```
## Problem 2

Create a folder on your desktop named `temp`. Use the `cd` command to make this your working directory.

Use the iterative process we learned in this chapter to make **1000 text files** that have the following name ranges `my_textFile_1.txt` through `my_textFile_1000.txt`

> ---
> **Warning!** Make sure you do this in the `temp` folder and not anywhere else on your system.
> ---

Once you are successful at this, delete the `temp` folder and all its contents.

**Question:** Could someone use this feature in a malicious way?

## Problem 3

Open a terminal window in VS Code. Navigate to your Desktop folder with the following command. `cd ~/Desktop`

Now use the `cd` command, and an absolute path to navigate into your Documents folder on your computer.  If you are a Windows user, your root is `C://`, if you are a MacOS or Linux user, your root is `/`.

## Problem 4

Open a terminal window in VS Code. Navigate to your Desktop folder with the following command. `cd ~/Desktop`

Now create another `temp` folder and then use the `cd` command to make this the working directory.

Now use the terminal to create **100 files** whose names range from `file1.txt` to `file100.txt`

Now use the terminal to go up on level in the file path.

Using your operating system GUI, zip your temp folder. Your compressed file should be named: `temp.zip`

After you have successfully zipped your file, use your operating system to extract all the files from your .zip file.

## Problem 5

Open the IDLE Shell and type in the following command then hit `Enter/Return`

```python
>>> print("#"*10)
```

Explain in your own words what you think happened.

Now try the following the IDLE Shell.

```python
>>> n = 25
>>> print("#"*n)
```

Again, what do you think just happened?

## Learning Objectives

- The student will be able to use the terminal to replicate/create a file tree.
- The student will be able to use the terminal and the `mkdir` command to create multiple files/directories using an iterative process.
- The student will be able to navigate their file system from the terminal using an absolute path.
- The student will be able to use the operating system's built in compression features to create a compressed .zip file from a project folder.
- The student will be able to use the operating system's built in decompression features to extract all files and directories from a .zip file.
- The student will observe given commands in the IDLE shell that have not yet been previously taught and make their own insightful hypothesis as to the function/purpose of the given commands.




&#8678; Previous Lesson: [Chapter Review](./009_review.md)

&#8680; Next Lesson: [Variables and Data Types](./../chp1/001_variables%20and%20data-types.md)