---
layout: post
title: To the Reader from the Author
categories: [lesson, chp_0]
---

Christ is to be exalted. We are to make much of Him. 1 Peter 2:9 states: "But you are a chosen race, a royal priesthood, a holy nation, a people for His own possession, that you may proclaim the excellencies of Him who called you out of darkness into His marvelous light." 

I believe this is possible, by the power of God's Spirit, at every turn and facet of life, even though it is many times difficult to do, and we are not naturally inclined to create the needed energy to effectively make this our daily praxis. This belief has formed over the years from seeing a lot of its "opposite" at work in the world.

It was 1993. That fall I would be entering college as a freshman. The world was a very different place then. I remember seeing on television, while it was unfolding, the ATF storm a compound in Waco Texas. The compound was on fire and many people were inside. A very troubled man named David Koresh believed, or at least taught others who belived, that He was Jesus Christ. This belief worked itself into a praxis. When that praxis had been fully worked out, it brought pain, slavery, suffering and death. Christ, however, the real Christ, brings life. Not death. David brought ruin to himself and to many others.

Since then, the Lord has led me down a very peculiar educational path. I went into college thinking to enter the field of Computer Science so that I could make video games. An aspiration of many young American males. Instead, when I showed up to the school, I found out that the degree had been cancelled due to a lack of enrollment, and I had to choose another major. Options were fewer back then. The Lord led me into Mathematics. At that time, my worst subject.

Fast forward 8 years from that point and now with a Bachelors and Masters degree in Mathematics from two different schools I was then led into secondary education. I taught Math, a subject I now loved yet once upon a time, despised. Go figure. God has a sense of humor.

Later in my life as my convictions and philosophy of education began to form and develop, I was approached by a faculty member at my former college and was asked if I was interested in developing a course for them on preparing students to take the SCJP. The Sun Certified Java Programmer's Examination. I thought to myself, _"This would be a great opportunity to learn Java!"_ So that is what I did and I was able to develop, in my opinion, a good starting point for them in their online program, though certainly the course had weaknesses that would have to be addressed as the course began to mature. Those weaknesses would be addressed by others.

I learned something very important then. Something that I never knew about myself until my mid twenties. I learned that I could learn. I learned that I could learn without investing multiple thousands of dollars into a diploma. In other words, I did not, by necessity, need a University. Universities do have great funding for research projects and expensive equipment so what I am telling you now is not universally true. There are still things a University education is greatly beneficial for. 

What I am trying to communicate, however, is that as this world has morphed and changed in every imaginable area of life since 1993, the opportunities for the self-motivated learner have increased exponentially since then. The internet and Web 2.0 have contributed greatly to that reality. Learning how to program and understand computer systems was for me, the field where I began to really grow as a personal learner.

How has my understanding of Computer Science and technology developed over this time, and how then should I view them in the light of belonging to Jesus Christ? Here is what I have learned.

## Immerse Yourself In God

Computer Science and Technology in the 21st century is a highly biased field. There is no reason to hold back that truth from the reader and there is too much objective evidence to support that claim. In particular, over the decades, this field has been purposefully engineered / constructed / designed / grown into a community that exalts ideaologies that are not just different from what scripture teaches, but in complete opposition to it! This community has no shame, and will not hesitate from calling anyone who trusts in Christ a fool and someone with little to no intelligence. So much for several decades of sensitivity training.

What then does the person of faith do? We do what we have always done. We place our hope and faith in Christ. This is not a _pie in the sky_ goal. It is very real and in the strength of Christ, totally possible. We just have to make sure our motivations are right.

### Respecting Conscience

**I want you to think about each question and statement below carefully. What do you truly and honestly think as you read each? How do you fill in the gaps?**

- Computers are (evil / good / neutral) ?
- Technology is (evil / good / neutral) ?
- Christians (should / should not) go into technology fields for their vocation.
- Christ Jesus wants His people to live holy lives in all areas of life? (1 Peter 1:16)
- I (enjoy / am apathetic to / dislike) learning new things.
- I (want / do not want) to learn how computers work and how to use them more effectively.
- I feel (positively / negatively / neutrally) about technology.

Before you proceed any further, you need to understand how you currently think about these things. (1 Corinthians 8:9) Why?

Not all Christians will have the same answers to the questions and statements above. As the author of this text, I am convinced, in my own conscience, that God can bless and help his people thrive in the field of Computer Science, and yes, even be a witness for Christ. Not all agree with that and that needs to be respected.

This text is developed for Christians. Believers. Those who have run to Christ and find their all in Him and trust in Him and His work on the cross for the salvation of their souls and their adoption into God's family, the church. 願基督在一切事情上得榮耀！[^1]

## Biblical Integration as Necessary and Effective

Scripture is very clear about how often we should focus our minds and hearts on God and His ways. All the time. (1 Corinthians 10:31, Phillipians 4:8, Isaiah 26:3, Acts 24:16, Ephesians 6:18)

Therefore it is the conviction of the author that Biblical integration is necessary. What then makes Biblical integration effective?

Biblical integration is effective when it does not intrude upon the lesson and transform the lesson into a Bible study, but instead, takes a posture of true worship of the triune God in Christ and focuses the joy of worship as a motivation for learning - to the end that - God is glorfied at the beginning, in the process of, and at the end result of that learning. This is a working hypothesis of the author.

What then does this text on Python offer to a believer that other texts do not?

1. This text is biblically integrated on principles found in God's Word. Principles that point to Christ as our great hope. This text takes a _high view_ of the authority, inerrancy, and perspicacity of scripture.
2. God, in Christ, is exalted and the reader is focused on Christ before, during, and after their learning.
3. Biblical integration in this text is not forced. The author will, at every turn, attempt to make it thoughtfully worked out in such a way as to fit into each lesson to aid the student in their thinking. (This is part of an on going praxis for the author.)
4. This text embraces the inevitable gap. What does this mean? This means that there will always be ways that biblical perspectives are not only like, but very un-like the content being taught. Hence the gap. When we use the term _un-like_, we mean it in the sense of _opposite or in opposition too._ This means that the author of this text understands and embraces this gap not only seeking to help the reader understand the parallels between biblical principles and the principles of Computer Science, but also the glaring contrasts as well.

## Maintaing the Bond of Peace

As a side note, I will do everything I can to be sensitive to believers across various denominations. _"Maintaining the bond of peace." (Ephesians 4:3)_ 

I do believe, however, that no matter who creates a written work, must do so from a perspective that is unique to their convictions. Therefore, I will need grace from the reader as well as be gracious to the reader.

There are two principles that I believe are important for anyone who would benefit from this work.

1. The gospel itself is believed upon fully / completely / wholly. That is, Jesus Christ is the Son of God, born of a virgin, fully/truly man, fully/truly God, lived a sinless life, died upon a cross to atone for our sin, was raised from the dead on the third day, is now ascended to the right hand of God the Father interceeding for His body, the church.
2. If you or I, truly and with sincerity, do not see scripture teaching a certain doctrine, then we are not obligated to believe that teaching. If, however, you and I do see scripture, truly and with sincerity, teaching a specific doctrine, then we are obligated to go to our Lord Jesus Christ, submit to His kind and tender kingship, and believe it with all our heart.

## Summary

I began this little adventure wanting to make video games. I ended up as a math nerd teaching students equations. Then mathematics led to the addition of computer classes. This led to developing a high school course where we made a video game[^2], which led to teaching an AP Computer Science course. Now, it has finally led to this text. It is important to begin something well. It is more important to begin it understanding and relying upon Christ as your anchor. A ship may be tossed upon the waves of a storm, but even though the anchor is hidden under the water, the ship is unmoved and does not drift. 

My desire is that anyone of faith who desires to learn Computer Science, begin their learning in an environment that will help them to discipline their hearts, minds, and yes, souls, in the focus and reality that Christ, their anchor, can keep them from drifting upon a very turbulent sea of shifting and changing philosophies. There are people in the technology field who truly believe that technology will be their redeemer and savior. They need those who are truly anchored in Christ to bring the gospel to them. Those who are truly anchored in Christ need an environment that will nurture them, not attack their faith at every turn. Hence, this little work.

_John C. Partridge_

_Website: https://www.logosmath.com_

&#8680; Next Lesson: [What Is Python?](./001_what_is_python.md)

[^1]: "May Christ be glorified in all things!"
[^2]: [Bacon Run](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=KL1T3vk_t2I)